https://watson-retrieve-and-rank.ng.bluemix.net/3b10dd20-a39e-11e6-b4fe-210064e973ff/content/379e4168-b81d-4a06-8ac3-ea0c1b760b99





Insônia causa cerca de $68bi nos EUA
cerca de 33% dos brasileiros sofrem com apneia

peach.ly/bluehack
bit



What is apnea?
 Apnea means not breathing. In OSA, you may stop breathing for short periods of time. Even when you are trying to breathe, there may be little or no airflow into the lungs. These pauses in airflow (obstructive apneas) can occur off and on during sleep, and cause you to wake up from a sound sleep. Frequent apneas can cause many problems. With time, if not treated, serious health problems may develop.

OSA is more common in men, women after menopause and people who are over the age of 65. OSA can also occur in children. There are several groups of people who are particularly at risk for developing OSA. People who are overweight are more likely to develop sleep apnea. OSA can occur in people who have large tonsils or adenoids. OSA can also run in families of people of normal size and in people with certain types of jaw problems. People with these jaw problems have difficulty keeping the back of their throat open. Some of these conditions are called micrognathia (a small jaw) and retrognathia (a pulled back jaw).

What are the symptoms of obstructive sleep apnea?
There are many clues that tell your provider that you may have OSA. You may not be aware that you have OSA, but these symptoms may be more obvious to a spouse, other family member, or close friend.

Common symptoms you may have during sleep

■ Snoring that is usually loud and bothers other people trying to sleep near you. Snoring can come and go through the night.

■ Gasping or choking sounds

■ Breathing pauses observed by someone watching you sleep.

■ Sudden or jerky body movements

■ Restless tossing and turning

■ Frequent awakenings from sleep

Common symptoms you may have while awake

■ Wake up feeling like you have not had enough sleep, even after sleeping many hours

■ Morning headache

■ Dry or sore throat in the morning from breathing through your mouth during sleep

■ Sleepiness during the day

■ Fatigue or tiredness through the day

■ Personality changes, such as mood swings and difficulty getting along with others

■ Problems with poor memory or unability to concentrate

Signs and Symptoms of Sleep Apnea in pregnancy
Upper airway changes in pregnancy Patency of the upper airway is well known to be an important predictor of the presence and severity of sleep disordered breathing, with reduced dimensions of the pharynx being strongly associated with obstructive sleep apnoea.10 Reduced pharyngeal dimensions during pregnancy have been demonstrated using the Mallampati score.11 Nasal patency is also reduced during pregnancy, with 42% of women at 36 weeks gestation reporting nasal congestion and rhinitis.12 These symptoms may be related to a combination of the increasing progesterone and oestrogen levels as pregnancy progresses. Increments in circulating oestrogen concentrations have been linked with nasal rhinitis, both during the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle13 and during pregnancy.14 In addition, the increase in circulating blood volume associated with pregnancy may also contribute to nasal congestion.

Otorhinolaryngology
Sleep and Its Disorders in Pregnancy
